my name is Mike Murphy I'm the managing
director of renter Bynes England the
company is a two part company we have
shareholding in the USA run by my
colleague Ron Ballard and the this
company that we have here is based in
South Yorkshire which is in the middle
of England we're approximately 200 miles
from London
we're about 60 miles from Hull and about
the same distance to Manchester
we've been going as a company now for 11
years the company was originally
developed from an idea a concept of the
ideal small turbine that perhaps home
builders might be able to achieve at
home wind turbines has always been a
small company we've always believed in
very high quality we've believed in
development constant testing constant
evolution and those people who know us
will know that regularly we bring out a
new product which hasn't been seen
either though shape or in form from any
other manufacturer we believe in
innovation we take a lot of time over
development and testing and we bring out
a lot of things that other people
haven't even started considering we have
constant new products coming along we
have constant evolution of the existing
product this example of that the Ren 54
he brought out the person was a kid in
2001 which was the very first
small-sized engine originally developed
to perfuse only seven pounds of thrust
and to be able to be built at home by a
home builder this was our first design
and this engine has still being made in
a different form now it has evolved all
the way through without changing its
size or its weight and it's now
available as a 10 kilogram 22 pound
thrust engine you can see it's developed
a long way from
we've expanded the range of engines
tremendously over the years
those people who know about renter banks
will know we were the very first to
bring out a to shaft engine and we've
evolved that concept to another smaller
two shaft and which based on our small
44 size engine
one of our greatest strengths has been
in our ability to turn what might have
been a fantastic idea in the original
origin into something really creative
I'd like to point to our friend 44
Engine nobody believed it was possible
to have an engine that was little more
than the size of a coffee mug which
could possibly produce enough power to
generate to propel an aircraft the
engine originally came came life as
Sonia five or six engines now producing
ten pounds across regularly we expanded
this into making this a two shaft
version for helicopter every pilots
helicopter pilots dream was to have a
turbine in a small helicopter
and we've made this possible with our
n44 engine the turboprop again everybody
believed it was a device for making wind
and not really flying a decent-sized
airplane whereas now there regularly
flying airplanes that were meant for
Abdur hundred cc petrol engine a
tremendous coward a very very small
package will never be a mass-market
manufacturer we're small but we're
specialized believing high quality we
spend a tremendous amount of time and
money on good quality components trying
to use the best that's available in
and we believe there's plenty more
applications that we would like to make
use of the engine we regularly get asked
for Jeff power applications for other
ideas like diversifying different fuels
the use of different applications such
as power generation short-term usain in
alternative power sources and this is
something that's quite interesting to us
and ask any of the people who've been
our open day today why would they choose
ran and they will always say because
there are real people a trend they are
accessible they are approachable they're
interested at concerns and they get
things done